---
layout: post
title: "Cult of Secrecy"
---

Two weeks ago we learned that the NSA, with the blessing of our President, operates a massive data-mining program called PRISM. In creating PRISM, they secretly coerced many of the largest internet companies to pass along our "personal" data.

I won't delve into the ramifications this has for us, as citizens, but I will attempt to shed some light on the cult of secrecy that has led us to this point.

Some may not realize that secrecy has become the norm, rather than the exception, when it comes to politically untenable issues.

###The Black Budget

Every year Congress approves a defense budget, which contains details for that year's military programs: their name, the organization responsible, the overall cost. These documents are surprisingly detailed. 

For instance, we can see that in 2012, the military decreased funding for the Predator UAV, while increasing funding for its successors: the Reaper and Gray Eagle.

We also see line items for personnel services, transportation, health, marketing, construction, demolition, etc.

Buried within this documents, however, are clues to a murkier world – vaguely-titled sections, with cryptic codenames – some bearing massive dollar amounts. This is the so-called ["black budget"](http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/3.11/patton_pr.html).

For although Congress *technically* must approve each and every expenditure, certain initiatives are far too sensitive for their eyes – let alone those of the general citizenry.

In this black budget you'll find (or fail to find) money intended for secret research projects, ultra-elite military units (such as Seal Team 6 and Delta Force), shadowy organizations like the CIA and NSA, and anything else the government wishes to hide from public eye.

In past years, the black budget contained some $20 - 30 billion in secret expenditures – but in the past couple of years, it has soared past *$50 billion.*

Considering the mountains of cash involved, and the number of people who partake in this secret world (upwards of a million Americans hold some form of security clearance), one realizes that there's really an entire, separate nation within our own – one which is growing at a feverish pace, and completely in secret.

###The Emperor's New Groove

This trend has grown slowly but surely over the last seven decades. However, it truly came of age on September 11th, 2001.

After the WTC attacks, President George W. Bush signed into law the PATRIOT ACT, which 